# Implementation-of-LOPMOPSO( Local Optimal Partical Multi-Objective Partical Swarm Optimization)


Optimization problems can be classified as single objective optimization and multi-objective optimization according to the number of optimization objectives. The main difference is multi-objective optimization problems have a series of solutions instead of one. These solutions are called Pareto solutions set, which is regarded as equally good. Also there are some drawbacks in MOPSO from practical applications. The most important of these problems is that MOPSO is easy to premature convergence and poor local search ability. To overcome the disadvantage of MOPSO, here incorporated some strategies into MOPSO to improve the diversity in Pareto optimal solutions and enhance the accuracy of solutions, such as introduce mutation to deal with premature convergence, the dynamic inertia weight to improve the local search ability of the PSO in the second half of the loop. 

First, non-dominated solutions set is found through MOPSO optimization. Because of low precision of MOPSO so that these non-dominated solutions always far away from true Pareto front. Then, some particles are selected from the specified part of nondominated solutions by means of calculating crowding distance of solutions and sorting them. Last, the local optimal particle local search method is utilized to optimize selected particles and the results are regarded as leader particles used for guiding the swarm move in search space.

The main goal of the approach is to improve the convergence performance of PSO, and preserve the diversity of non-dominated set. This algorithm  is coded in botgh C++ language and Matlab and selects some non-dominated solutions lied in less-crowded region of external archive based upon crowding distance value to construct a leader particles set, and make full use of optimal particles method to guide leader particles approach the Pareto front quickly. A local optimal particles search strategy is proposed after particular analysis on disadvantage of global optimal particle search method, and names our algorithm as LOPMOPSO. Furthermore, the multi-dimensional uniform mutation operator is performed to prevent algorithm from trapping into local optimum, and a dynamic archive maintenance strategy is applied to improve the diversity of solutions.

